In our previous clip, we created our API.
Now,
let's take a look and explore it. In the AppSync start page, we
should see our newly created API in the list of APIs. We named
it GlobomanticsTaskManagerApi.
Let's open it and explore. First,
let's navigate to the schema by using the left side navigation bar.
At first glance,
we see the inputs. We have the create task input and the delete
task input, and at the very bottom of the schema,
we should have the update task input.
The create task input has a title, date, and description. The ID will be
autogenerated for us when you create a new item. For deleting,
we only need to supply the ID, and for updating our data,
we need to specify the ID, title, date, and the description.
Next, we have the mutations.
The wizard has created three mutations for us: the createGlobomanticsTasks,
updateGlobomanticsTasks, and deleteGlobomanticsTasks. Using these, we'll be
able to create tasks, update, and delete them.
Next, we have the queries. We have two queries autogenerated for us: the
getGlobomanticsTasks, which expects an ID, and returns a task.
This is when we want to get a single task, and, to get all the
tasks, we use the listGlobomanticsTasks query,
which expects in a filter if you want to filter some items;
and finally, we have the subscriptions.
Subscriptions are what we use to get real time notifications
when data changes, Here, the wizard has created three
subscriptions for us: when a task is created,
when a task is updated, and then when a task is deleted.
We can subscribe from our client application, and get real time updates as
soon as data changes, so we can show it to our users.
Next, let's navigate to the data sources.
Here is where we edit our data sources or add new ones.
Next up, we have functions.
Functions are single operations that are run against our data source that
can be used to implement logic across multiple pipeline resolvers. We're
going to come back at creating functions when we implement pipeline
resolvers later on in the course. To test our API that we just created, we
can navigate to the queries.
Here, we have a helper UI that we can use to run queries
against our API. The UI has a mutation for creating tasks,
and a query for listing them.
We can add or remove queries and mutations, and test them
directly from in the screen without having to build a client
UI. We also have the query variables.
In this case, we have the createglobomanticstasksinput,
which has a title, description, and date.
So, let's run this query using the start query execution button, and create
a new task by running the createGlobomanticsTasks mutation. As we can see,
the query execution completed successfully, and now we have a task in our
DynamoDB table. If you try to list them using the listGlobomantics query,
we should see one item.
Now, let's run the create task again,
and if we list them, now we should see two items, and indeed,
we have two tasks now in our DynamoDB table.
Next, we have caching. Here, we can decide if we want to cache our API called.
We can choose to cache full requests or per‑resolver caching.
We'll come back to caching and explore it in details later on in this
course. In the settings page, here, we get our API details that we'll
use to connect to our client application.
We can change the API name as well, and then, change the authorization settings.
We'll come back to this when we connect to our client application and
set up authentication; and finally, we have monitoring. Here, we can
choose to view our logs and see API metrics.
Now that we have a better understanding of AppSync APIs, we'll start
connecting our client application to this API that we just created, and start making queries and mutations.